---
layout: post
title: History repeats. Already. All hail the PMS blog!
---
*REPOSTED FROM THE "OLD SITE":http://intouchwiththeobvious.wordpress.com/2009/07/17/history-repeats/*

George Santayana famously said, "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."

Less than a year ago, the public was inflicted with the poorly-implemented DBCDEQWLEKNQWLEIRGNQ blog by everyone's favourite senator, Stephen Conroy, which presented us with snippets of a whitepaper cunningly disguised as "blog posts" by tacking a lame-arse question on the end. Now KRudd has come out with his very own "blog":http://pm.gov.au/pm_connect/pms_blog, which, by the eternal laws of the internet shall be known as "The PMS Blog" due to its somewhat unfortunate URL.[1] (It is at least easier to remember than the DBCDEQUASNDFGALJWENR blog. First thing they should have done there was purchase a fucking domain name.)

Yet it has exactly the same failings. It has 9–5 weekday moderation of all comments, no links, no webpage link for the commenter, and very little (read: no) interaction on the part of the blogger. So far. It only has one post to date, and you only get 5 days to comment on each post. The fr0sty p!ss suffers from the same "press-release" quality that marred Conroy's attempt to join the 21st century.

KRudd's peeps have shown once again that he is, in the words of "An Onymous Lefty":http://anonymouslefty.wordpress.com/2009/07/16/kevin-rudd-is-hip-to-the-kids-of-2004/, "hip to the kids... of 2004".

Just like everything internet-related done so far by this government, it's about 5 years behind the times.[2]

We can hope that, in time, the blog may improve, but I, for one, will not be holding my breath.

(Hat tip: "Stilgherrian":http://stilgherrian.com/politics/whaddyareckon-of-the-ruddblog).

<hr />

fn1. As pointed out to me by a co-worker, that would at least explain the hairdryer incident.

fn2. A filter based on a 2003 report by a Catholic apologist (with no credible evidence to support it then, and even less now), a national broadband network that I have extreme reservations about being implemented in a useful manner, since it's targetting <em>today's</em> internet standards, rather than aiming for the standards that the rest of the world will have by the time they get the damned thing finished, and now a (second) blog that spews information like a press-release.

