---
title: The Real Cost Of Free (Addendum)
layout: post
---
There was an issue Cory Doctorow touched upon tangentially in his excellent "rebuttal":http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/blog/2010/oct/05/free-online-content-cory-doctorow to Helienne Lindvall's "misguided piece":http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/pda/2010/sep/27/free-online-content, but I thought warranted greater attention. Naturally, Doctorow focuses on the assertions made my Ms Lindvall against himself and other writers, but the point he makes holds true for most creative artists.

Why shouldn't he charge for talks?

Most artists need to supplement their incomes. Very few will ever see the level of success required to support themselves, let alone their families, from these endeavours. Which is why most of us have day jobs. Speaking engagements are not really all that different. (This is in spite of the fact that Cory pointed out that most of his speaking engagements are unpaid or extremely lowly paid.)

And that's okay. Most people are willing to pay a fair price for a product. One of the reasons 'piracy' is so rampant (if you believe the record labels' statistics) is that CDs are horrendously over-priced for what they are, and various popular digital methods are so encumbered by restrictive DRM that they are not a viable alternative. The cost of production goes down, but the wholesale price remains the same (or goes up). Give people a reasonable product at a reasonable price, and most will buy. Yes, there will always be freeloaders; hell, people still tape songs off the radio. 

I'm a musician in an independent band; collectively we fronted about $10,000 of our own money (just shy of $2,000 each) to produce our album. We have a lot to lose (potentially) if people share it rather than buy it. And you know what? I'm fine with that. Get it, listen to it, enjoy it (hopefully). If you really like it, consider buying it (or something else) from us. Come and see us play live.

By Ms Lindvall's logic, it would be hypocritical of me to expect you to _pay_ to see us live, however. And buying tickets to a Nine Inch Nails' concert? Forget it -- they _gave away an album_. Hypocritical money-grubbing bastards.