---
layout: post
title: Atheist extremism
---

bq. As we reflect on the sobering lessons of the atheist extremism of the twentieth century, let us never forget how the exclusion of God, religion and virtue from public life leads ultimately to a truncated vision of man and of society and thus to a “reductive vision of the person and his destiny” (Caritas in Veritate, 29).

Courtesy of "Pope Palpatine":http://www.catholicherald.co.uk/news/2010/09/16/papal-visit-2010-popes-holyroodhouse-speech-full-text/ I thought it important that we reflect on the nature of "atheist extremism". For your edification, that you may understand the atrocities committed in the name of atheism, I provide you with a definition of the Pope's "sobering lessons":

bq. Atheist Extremism _(n.)_ The writing of witty and/or provocative articles and books which make theologists and religious leaders uncomfortable by pointing out the inherent hypocrisy and stark raving lunacy of many of their claims. Considered as bad as, if not worse than, Nazism by the leader of the Catholic Church.

Damn atheist-secularist-freedom-hating pigs. Wanting to encourage rational thought and education. Wanting to maintain separation of Church and State. Wanting to eliminate

bq. respect for those traditional values and cultural expressions that more aggressive forms of secularism no longer value or even tolerate.

Wait. What?

Because it was the Secular Atheist Conspiracy that supported the Nazis during the Second World War. And it was the Secular Atheist Conspiracy which systematically covered up the abuse of numerous children by high-ranking members of its organisation rather than report the incidents to the appropriate authorities.

Oh... 

Really?

My bad.

That was the Papal See and the Catholic Church.