---
layout: post
title: Stephen Conroy is a liar (and an idiot)
---
Dear Senator Conroy,

You are full of shit. And you are an idiot.

bq. "Ninety-five per cent of every single internet user in the UK goes through a filter of the kind we are talking about and it blocks 100 per cent accurately the child pornography websites," he said.

_No_ filter, anywhere in the world, can be that accurate (without affecting speed). It is simply not technologically feasible. At the very least, there will be false-positives. Even were it to block _every_ child porn site (unlikely), if it blocks even _one_ site that it should not, then it is not 100 per cent accurate. (But I bet you don't count those false-positives in your statistics, do you, Senator?)

I'm not just talking about the internet, here. It's mathematically impossible to create a perfect filter (i.e. one that filters 100 per cent accurately with no discernible effect on speed). Accuracy is inversely proportional to speed.

p(equation). f(a) &prop; 1/v %(eqNo)@(1)@%

Think of it like a sieve. Not using a sieve is faster than using a sieve, but you don't get any filtering. The coarser your sieve, the faster the contents will pass through, but with more impurities. The finer you make the sieve, the less crap that gets through, but you pay a price in the flow rate and will prevent things from getting through that should.

bq. He said the Government always said the internet filter would not pick up peer-to-peer traffic, which is how the bulk of child pornography is distributed online.

You either have a very bad memory, or you are lying, Mr Conroy. And I quote (from your own words on "your very own blog":http://www.archive.dbcde.gov.au/2009/july/future_directions_blog/topics/civil_and_confident_society_online/internet_filtering_wont_stop_peer_to_peer_and_bittorrent_traffic_so_why_bother):

bq. Technology is improving all the time. Technology that filters peer-to-peer and BitTorrent traffic does exist and it is anticipated that the effectiveness of this will be tested in the live pilot trial.

Care to explain that, Mr Conroy? Those are _your_ words exactly. I don't believe the pilot trial tested p2p-filtering in the end; it doesn't change the fact that you _were expecting to test it_. You said something and now you claim you never said it; _ergo_, you are lying. (Also, I believe you were lying in the previous statement: filtering p2p is effectively impossible, since files are distributed in pieces and it would be trivial to fool any filter based on file signatures by using simple compression or padding.)

bq. "The peer-to-peer material does nothing about the 440 child pornography sites that are there right now," he said.

Seriously, 440 sites? That's like stopping everyone from driving because one person ran a red light. Once. And if there's only 440 sites, why does the black list used for the filter contain 10,000 URLs?

bq. "What Malcolm Turnbull has to explain to Australian families is that he is prepared to do nothing, nothing about blocking access to those 440 child pornography websites."

No, what _you_ have to explain is why you are persisting with this provably flawed policy when 95 per cent of Australians -- including industry experts from both ISPs and child protection agencies -- have said it will not work, both from a technical and a philosophical standpoint.

Furthermore, your original mandate for the filter was to prevent accidental access to inappropriate material by minors. The Coalition Government under John Howard had free PC-based filtering available to all families in Australia, which everyone -- ISPs and consumers -- thought was an acceptable solution. It was the Labor Government under Rudd which discontinued the scheme since no-one was bothering to use it.

Give it up, Stevo. "Fielding is gone":http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/09/16/3013974.htm. You don't have to pretend anymore.