---
layout: post
title: Control
---

Something that [Bruce Schneier](http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/06/filming_the_pol.html) wrote today (well, technically the relevant part of the article is originally from [2008](http://www.schneier.com/essay-208.html)) resonated deeply with me, particularly in light of recent developments in Australia.

> It's not enough to open the \[government's\] efforts to public scrutiny. All aspects of government work best when the relative power between the governors and the governed remains as small as possible -- when liberty is high and control is low. Forced openness in government reduces the relative power differential between the two, and is generally good. Forced openness in laypeople increases the relative power, and is generally bad.

This reminds me of efforts by current Australian governments (both federal and state -- at least here in SA) to increase surveillance and control of the population. Not direct surveillance, so much, with cameras and all that, but indirect surveillance such as forcing ISPs to retain a log for up to 2 years of subscribers' browsing habits. (Although this has apparently been going on for a few years in Europe, I am yet to see any statistical evidence suggesting that it improves the effectiveness of law enforcement or enhances the security of the general populace in any way.)

Or artificial control such as forcing businesses in SA to treat all R18+ material as if it were pornographic. (Funnily enough, this law does _not_ apply in adult stores, where the majority of material _is_ pornographic.)

Or requiring all persons coming in on overseas flights to declare any pornography (even if it's legal).

Or treating gamers [as if they're children](http://r18games.com.au). Not to mention the fact that they are now seeking "unbiased" (read 'biased in favour of the government's current position') views since the response to introducing an R18+ classification for games what overwhelmingly positive. Even though these 'unbiased' groups had plenty of time to get their opinions in when the paper was released (but didn't).

What we are seeing is the governments' attempts to widen the divide -- more information _about_ the populace without providing more information _to_ the populace.

This way danger lies.

It is a disturbing trend, and not at all what we should be aiming for in a free society. Along with the mandatory-optional-no-opt-out filter which is _still_ on the table, it shows a disturbing trend of the Labor governments to tighten control over the populace, all in the name of security.

We know that any power seized by a government is very hard to win back.